okay
welcome to bi-weekly call gui and win
in web browsers which happened months
ago last time
but maybe holidays old days
um yeah so we've been busy with a bunch
of stuff
but uh breaking the silence i guess
uh to give a full quick demos
of recent developments in the browser
land
so i'll just jump straight to that and
share my screen
um so this is a brave browser
and i got a demo about brave bit later
but first i wanted to
show how we solved the final
feature gap on public subdomain gateways
gateways so the problem with the public
subdomain gateways was that
maybe i'll illustrate it will be easier
so
so a wikipedia mirror has
dns links set up and if you just
load the original domain name
which has dns link dns txt record with
a content path to ipfs resource
it looks like a regular website so the
problem is
what happens if this original http
server goes down
the copy is still on ipfs but how do you
get to it
so in the past you would go to ipfsio
ipns right and you enter
the domain name here wow that's
a bit slow
right so that may take uh some time
to load or not
not sure why it's loading so far so slow
uh
anyway this way you can load it from a
public gateway it will eventually fetch
the content you want the problem is uh
this is path k based gateway and you
don't get a oh yeah so you don't get any
original isolation
every website loaded this way will share
cookies
with ev it will be stored
in ipfsio origin so every page
share the same origin which is bad
so we have subdomain gateways to solve
the origin problem
um however
the problem maybe i will also illustrate
so
i'm using cloudflare gateway because
they are running
a current stable version of go ipfs
which is a good
illustration so if you try to load
it similar fashion from a subdomain
gateway
i believe it will redirect you to a
subdomain
however what happened now you see this
tls error it says that connection to
site is not secure
and the problem is that the
name of a domain of a
tls certificate is not
matching it's not matching this domain
the problem is that you've got more than
a single level
you can see there's one level here
here is another level and there's the
third one
and the tls certs support wild cards
however those wild cards are only for a
single level
so we solve this problem uh
in the patch landed in go ipfs
and it will be released with go ipfs 0.8
however we already run this
patch on the web link gateway so
oh gosh
so if you load this this way
you can see
it loaded fine because we encode
we inline domain names into a single dns
label
which is compatible with tls cells so
it's a tiny fix
and probably most of people don't care
about it but it was the final
missing gap between path-based gateways
and subdomain gateways
it's not something we expect people to
use often but
if you are a web browser developer or
you
if you are running a website and you
want to
link to some mirrors you can just link
to
other subdomain gateways this way and
even if your original server is down for
some reason
people will still be able to load dns
link websites
this way and what happened here is
you can see my second update which
is native support for ipfs in brave
and this is brave 1.19
and here you can see i loaded the public
subdomain gateway and brave
automatically detected hey this thing
looks like ipfs resource would you like
brave to
load it using a local ipfs node and
there's this enable ipfs
button and if i click that button
brave will download ipfs
daemon and start it and you will be able
to load
ipfs uris resources like this from a
local gateway
by brave but i will
not do that instead i will show you a
much easier onboarding
so you go maybe here you go to settings
and you go to extensions and you
enable ipfs companion
it takes a moment but here companion is
installed
and you can see i already got my node
running however that's my local ipfs
desktop
and i wanted to screen share this
because probably most of people who are
watching this are already running ipfs
node
so this is not a standard flow but
probably will reduce a lot of confusion
so you can see i'm using external node
this is go ipfs running in docker
however i can switch to
node provided by brave
and this will trigger the same prompt if
i enable ipfs here
it will download the demand and start it
it was fast because i got a fast gigabit
fiber
at my place it probably won't be as fast
for
everybody most of people on the planet
but i'm lucky uh
just you and you just need to be patient
and um
here uh and there are there are
interstitial
texts if you don't have immediate fast
internet like light all does you'll see
step one of three step two is three step
three you will see that guided i'm
pretty sure you can play
youtube slowed it down and you watch
youtube
yeah apologies for that i i i could like
figure it out
a better demo but yeah
and what happens here is it's a regular
ipfs node
running you can even go to web ui
uh it's right now 0.7 however the
cool thing about this is all auto
updates of ipfs
node will be automatically handled by
brave
so you don't need to update it they will
take care of it
and what's cool is that if i go once
again
if i go to that website with dns link
and if you have ipfs companion it will
automatically
redirect you to native uri so
you don't need to do anything fancy
now it just works i believe it's
scheduled to hit a stable channel today
so probably when you are watching this
it's already in the production version
of brave if not
stay tuned or play with brave beta
or brave nightly that's the demo
we'll probably add links to some blog
posts in the
uh in notes um but right now
it's pre-released so that's all i wanted
to show you
any last moment topics we want to
discuss
we probably have more uh
things to discuss next time we see each
other in two weeks
uh maybe something pinning service
related
or maybe not who knows
i assume we don't have anything on an
agenda so i'll stop my recording now
i think we're good yeah for anybody out
there on internet land
see you in two weeks one hour
later than usual the new usual
is one hour later than the old usual
yeah that's me i move
i just moved the item this call
in the community calendar but i did not
update any
description on our github issue so i
will do that
ah you're gonna cool yeah i will
i will take that off my list thank you
yeah
alright see you in two weeks